# Bionic Reading

**Ch**ief **Jus**tice **Rob**erts, **Pre**sident **Car**ter, **Pre**sident **Cli**nton, **Pre**sident **Bu**sh, **Pre**sident **Ob**ama, **fe**llow **Ame**ricans, and **pe**ople of the **wo**rld: **th**ank **yo**u. We, the **cit**izens of **Ame**rica, are now **jo**ined in a **gr**eat **nat**ional **ef**fort to **reb**uild our **cou**ntry and **res**tore its **pro**mise for all of our **peo**ple. **Tog**ether we **wi**ll **det**ermine the **co**urse of **Ame**rica and the **wo**rld for **ma**ny, **ma**ny **ye**ars to **co**me. We **wi**ll **fa**ce **cha**llenges. We **wi**ll **con**front **har**dships, but we **wi**ll get the job **do**ne. **Ev**ery **fo**ur **ye**ars we **ga**ther on **th**ese **st**eps to **ca**rry out the **ord**erly and **pea**ceful **tra**nsfer of **po**wer, and we are **gra**teful to **Pre**sident **Ob**ama and **Fi**rst **La**dy **Mic**helle **Ob**ama for **th**eir **gra**cious aid **thr**oughout **th**is **tra**nsition. **Th**ey **ha**ve **be**en **mag**nificent. **Th**ank **yo**u. **Tod**ay's **cer**emony, **how**ever, has **ve**ry **spe**cial **mea**ning. **Bec**ause **to**day we are not **me**rely **tra**nsferring **po**wer **fr**om one **admin**istration to **ano**ther or **fr**om one **pa**rty to **ano**ther, but we are **tra**nsferring **po**wer **fr**om **Was**hington, **D.**C. and **gi**ving it **ba**ck to **yo**u, the **peo**ple. For too **lo**ng, a **sm**all **gr**oup in our **nat**ion's **cap**ital has **re**aped the **rew**ards of **gov**ernment **wh**ile the **pe**ople **ha**ve **bo**rne the **co**st. **Was**hington **flo**urished, but the **pe**ople did not **sh**are in its **wea**lth. **Pol**iticians **pro**spered, but the **jo**bs **le**ft, and the **fac**tories **clo**sed. The **estab**lishment **pro**tected **its**elf, but not the **cit**izens of our **cou**ntry. **Th**eir **vic**tories **ha**ve not **be**en **yo**ur **vic**tories; **th**eir **tri**umphs **ha**ve not **be**en **yo**ur **tri**umphs; and **wh**ile **th**ey **cel**ebrated in our **nat**ion's **cap**ital, **th**ere was **li**ttle to **cel**ebrate for **str**uggling **fam**ilies all **ac**ross our **la**nd. **Th**at all **cha**nges **sta**rting **ri**ght **he**re and **ri**ght **no**w, **bec**ause **th**is **mo**ment is **yo**ur **mom**ent. It **bel**ongs to **yo**u. It **bel**ongs to **eve**ryone **gat**hered **he**re **to**day and **eve**ryone **wat**ching all **ac**ross **Ame**rica. **Th**is is **yo**ur **da**y, **th**is is **yo**ur **cel**ebration, and **th**is, the **Un**ited **St**ates of **Ame**rica, is **yo**ur **cou**ntry. **Wh**at **tr**uly **mat**ters is not **wh**ich **pa**rty **con**trols our **gov**ernment, but **whe**ther our **gov**ernment is **con**trolled by the **peo**ple. **Ja**n. 20, **20**17, **wi**ll be **rem**embered as the day the **pe**ople **be**came the **ru**lers of **th**is **na**tion **ag**ain. The **for**gotten men and **wo**men of our **cou**ntry **wi**ll be **for**gotten no **lon**ger. **Eve**ryone is **lis**tening to you **no**w. You **ca**me by the **te**ns of **mil**lions to **be**come **pa**rt of an **his**toric **mov**ement, the **li**kes of **wh**ich the **wo**rld has **ne**ver **se**en **bef**ore. At the **ce**nter of **th**is **mov**ement is a **cru**cial **con**viction **th**at a **na**tion **ex**ists to **se**rve its **cit**izens. **Ame**ricans **wa**nt **gr**eat **sch**ools for **th**eir **chi**ldren, **sa**fe **neigh**borhoods for **th**eir **fam**ilies and **go**od **jo**bs for **the**mselves. **Th**ese are **ju**st and **rea**sonable **dem**ands of **rig**hteous **pe**ople and a **rig**hteous **pub**lic, but for too **ma**ny of our **cit**izens, a **dif**ferent **rea**lity **exi**sts: **Mot**hers and **chi**ldren **tra**pped in **pov**erty in our **in**ner **cit**ies, **rus**ted-out **fac**tories **sca**ttered **li**ke **tom**bstones **ac**ross the **lan**dscape of our **nat**ion; an **edu**cation **sy**stem **fl**ush **wi**th **ca**sh but **wh**ich **le**aves our **yo**ung and **bea**utiful **stu**dents **dep**rived of all **kno**wledge; and the **cr**ime and the **ga**ngs and the **dr**ugs **th**at **ha**ve **st**olen too **ma**ny **li**ves and **ro**bbed our **cou**ntry of so **mu**ch **unr**ealized **pot**ential. **Th**is **Ame**rican **car**nage **st**ops **ri**ght **he**re and **st**ops **ri**ght **no**w. We are one **nat**ion, and **th**eir **pa**in is our **pa**in. **Th**eir **dr**eams are our **dre**ams, and **th**eir **suc**cess **wi**ll be our **suc**cess. We **sh**are one **he**art, one **ho**me, and one **glo**rious **des**tiny. The **oa**th of **of**fice I **ta**ke **to**day is an **oa**th of **all**egiance to all **Ame**ricans. For **ma**ny **dec**ades **we**’ve **enr**iched **for**eign **ind**ustry at the **exp**ense of **Ame**rican **ind**ustry, **sub**sidized the **ar**mies of **ot**her **cou**ntries **wh**ile **all**owing for the **ve**ry sad **dep**letion of our **mil**itary. **We**'ve **def**ended **ot**her **nat**ions’ **bor**ders **wh**ile **ref**using to **de**fend our own and **sp**ent **tri**llions and **tri**llions of **dol**lars **ove**rseas **wh**ile **Ame**rica's **infra**structure has **fa**llen **in**to **dis**repair and **de**cay. **We**'ve **ma**de **ot**her **cou**ntries **ri**ch **wh**ile the **wea**lth, **str**ength and **con**fidence of our **cou**ntry has **dis**sipated **ov**er the **hor**izon. One by **on**e, the **fac**tories **shu**ttered and **le**ft our **sho**res, **wi**th not **ev**en a **tho**ught **ab**out the **mil**lions and **mil**lions of **Ame**rican **wor**kers **th**at **we**re **le**ft **beh**ind. The **we**alth of our **mi**ddle **cl**ass has **be**en **ri**pped **fr**om **th**eir **ho**mes and **th**en **redis**tributed all **ac**ross the **wo**rld. But **th**at is the **pa**st, and now we are **loo**king **on**ly to the **fut**ure. We **ass**embled **he**re **to**day are **iss**uing a new **de**cree to be **he**ard in **ev**ery **ci**ty, in **ev**ery **for**eign **cap**ital and in **ev**ery **ha**ll of **po**wer. **Fr**om **th**is day **for**ward, a new **vi**sion **wi**ll **go**vern our **la**nd. **Fr**om **th**is day **for**ward, **it**'s **go**ing to be **on**ly **Ame**rica **fi**rst. **Ame**rica **fi**rst. **Ev**ery **dec**ision on **tr**ade, on **ta**xes, on **imm**igration, on **for**eign **aff**airs **wi**ll be **ma**de to **ben**efit **Ame**rican **wor**kers and **Ame**rican **fam**ilies. We **mu**st **pro**tect our **bor**ders **fr**om the **rav**ages of **ot**her **cou**ntries **ma**king our **pro**ducts, **ste**aling our **com**panies and **des**troying our **jo**bs. **Pro**tection **wi**ll **le**ad to **gr**eat **pro**sperity and **str**ength. I **wi**ll **fi**ght for you **wi**th **ev**ery **br**eath in my **bo**dy, and I **wi**ll **ne**ver, **ev**er let you **do**wn. **Ame**rica **wi**ll **st**art **win**ning **ag**ain, **win**ning **li**ke **ne**ver **bef**ore. We **wi**ll **br**ing **ba**ck our **jo**bs. We **wi**ll **br**ing **ba**ck our **bor**ders. We **wi**ll **br**ing **ba**ck our **wea**lth. And we **wi**ll **br**ing **ba**ck our **dre**ams. We **wi**ll **bu**ild new **ro**ads, and **hig**hways, and **bri**dges, and **air**ports, and **tun**nels, and **rai**lways all **ac**ross our **won**derful **nat**ion. We **wi**ll get our **pe**ople off of **wel**fare and **ba**ck to **wo**rk **reb**uilding our **cou**ntry **wi**th **Ame**rican **ha**nds and **Ame**rican **la**bor. We **wi**ll **fo**llow two **si**mple **ru**les: Buy **Ame**rican and **hi**re **Ame**rican. We **wi**ll **se**ek **fri**endship and **goo**dwill **wi**th the **nat**ions of the **wo**rld, but we do so **wi**th the **under**standing **th**at it is the **ri**ght of all **nat**ions to put **th**eir own **int**erests **fi**rst. We do not **se**ek to **im**pose our way of **li**fe on **any**one, but **ra**ther to let it **sh**ine as an **exa**mple. We **wi**ll **sh**ine for **eve**ryone to **fol**low. We **wi**ll **rei**nforce old **all**iances and **fo**rm new **on**es — and **un**ite the **civ**ilized **wo**rld **aga**inst **rad**ical **Isl**amic **ter**rorism, **wh**ich we **wi**ll **era**dicate **com**pletely **fr**om the **fa**ce of the **ea**rth. At the **bed**rock of our **pol**itics **wi**ll be a **to**tal **all**egiance to the **Un**ited **St**ates of **Ame**rica, and **thr**ough our **loy**alty to our **cou**ntry, we **wi**ll **red**iscover our **loy**alty to **ea**ch **ot**her. **Wh**en you **op**en **yo**ur **he**art to **pat**riotism, **th**ere is no **ro**om for **pre**judice. The **Bi**ble **te**lls us how **go**od and **ple**asant it is **wh**en **Go**d's **pe**ople **li**ve **tog**ether in **un**ity. We **mu**st **sp**eak our **mi**nds **ope**nly, **de**bate our **disag**reements **hon**estly, but **al**ways **pu**rsue **sol**idarity. **Wh**en **Ame**rica is **uni**ted, **Ame**rica is **tot**ally **uns**toppable. **Th**ere **sh**ould be no **fe**ar. We are **pro**tected, and we **wi**ll **al**ways be **pro**tected. We **wi**ll be **pro**tected by the **gr**eat men and **wo**men of our **mil**itary and law **enf**orcement **an**d, **mo**st **imp**ortantly, we **wi**ll be **pro**tected by **Go**d. **Fin**ally, we **mu**st **th**ink big and **dr**eam **ev**en **big**ger. In **Ame**rica, we **und**erstand **th**at a **na**tion is **on**ly **li**ving as **lo**ng as it is **str**iving. We **wi**ll no **lo**nger **ac**cept **pol**iticians who are all **ta**lk and no **act**ion, **con**stantly **com**plaining but **ne**ver **do**ing **any**thing **ab**out it. The **ti**me for **em**pty **ta**lk is **ov**er. Now **arr**ives the **ho**ur of **act**ion. Do not **al**low **an**yone to **te**ll you **th**at it **ca**nnot be **do**ne. No **cha**llenge can **ma**tch the **he**art and **fi**ght and **sp**irit of **Ame**rica. We **wi**ll not **fa**il. Our **cou**ntry **wi**ll **th**rive and **pro**sper **ag**ain. We **st**and at the **bi**rth of a new **mil**lennium, **re**ady to **un**lock the **mys**teries of **sp**ace, to **fr**ee the **ea**rth **fr**om the **mis**eries of **dis**ease and to **har**ness the **ene**rgies, **ind**ustries and **tec**hnologies of **tom**orrow. A new **nat**ional **pr**ide **wi**ll **st**ir **our**selves, **li**ft our **si**ghts and **he**al our **div**isions. **It**'s **ti**me to **rem**ember **th**at old **wi**sdom our **sol**diers **wi**ll **ne**ver **for**get: **th**at **whe**ther we are **bl**ack or **br**own or **wh**ite, we all **bl**eed the **sa**me red **bl**ood of **pat**riots, we all **en**joy the **sa**me **glo**rious **fre**edoms, and we all **sa**lute the **sa**me **gr**eat **Ame**rican **fl**ag. And **whe**ther a **ch**ild is **bo**rn in the **ur**ban **sp**rawl of **Det**roit or the **win**d-swept **pl**ains of **Neb**raska, **th**ey **lo**ok up at the **sa**me **ni**ght **sk**y, **th**ey **fi**ll **th**eir **he**art **wi**th the **sa**me **dre**ams, and **th**ey are **inf**used **wi**th the **br**eath of **li**fe by the **sa**me **alm**ighty **cre**ator. So to all **Ame**ricans, in **ev**ery **ci**ty **ne**ar and **fa**r, **sm**all and **la**rge, **fr**om **mou**ntain to **mou**ntain, **fr**om **oc**ean to **oc**ean, **he**ar **th**ese **wo**rds. You **wi**ll **ne**ver be **ign**ored **ag**ain. **Yo**ur **vo**ice, **yo**ur **ho**pes and **yo**ur **dr**eams **wi**ll **de**fine our **Ame**rican **des**tiny. And **yo**ur **cou**rage and **goo**dness and **lo**ve **wi**ll **for**ever **gu**ide us **al**ong the **wa**y. **Tog**ether we **wi**ll **ma**ke **Ame**rica **st**rong **ag**ain. We **wi**ll **ma**ke **Ame**rica **wea**lthy **ag**ain. We **wi**ll **ma**ke **Ame**rica **pr**oud **ag**ain. We **wi**ll **ma**ke **Ame**rica **sa**fe **ag**ain. **An**d, **ye**s, **tog**ether, we **wi**ll **ma**ke **Ame**rica **gr**eat **ag**ain. **Th**ank **yo**u. God **bl**ess you and God **bl**ess **Ame**rica. **Th**ank **yo**u. God **bl**ess **Ame**rica.

*Texto gerado por inteligência artificial.*